.\" ============================================================================
.\" ZiggyDB(1) - User Manual
.\" ============================================================================
.TH ZIGGYDB 1 "November 2025" "ZiggyDB v1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ziggydb \- interactive key-value database shell written in Zig

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ziggydb
.RI [ options ]
.br
Launches an interactive shell to run database commands.

.SH DESCRIPTION
ZiggyDB is a lightweight, durable key-value data store based on a 
Write-Ahead Log (WAL). It supports multiple data structures:

.TP
• Strings, integers, floats, booleans, binary values
.br
• Lists (with LPUSH/LPOP/LRANGE)
.br
• Bitmaps and Bitfields
.br
• Transactions
.br
• Sets and Sorted Sets

The shell can import/export JSON data and act as a TCP server interface.

.SH COMMANDS
Available commands in the shell:

.TP
.B SET key value [EXP seconds] [TYPE type]
Store a key-value pair. Optionally define expiry and type.
.br
Types: STRING, INT, FLOAT, BOOL, BINARY, TIMESTAMP, BITMAP, BITFEILD.

.TP
.B GET key
Retrieve the value of
.I key
if it exists.

.TP
.B DEL key
Delete the key-value pair.

.TP
.B LPUSH key value [value ...]
Push one or more values to the beginning of a list.

.TP
.B LPOP key
Remove and return the first element of the list.

.TP
.B LRANGE key start stop
Return a range of list elements.

.TP
.B SETBIT key offset value
Set or clear a bit at the given offset.

.TP
.B GETBIT key offset
Get the bit value at offset.

.TP
.B BITFIELD key [SET|GET ...]
Manipulate arbitrary bitfields.

.TP
.B SADD key member [member ...]
Add one or more members to a Set. Members are unique.

.TP
.B SREM key member [member ...]
Remove members from a Set.

.TP
.B SMEMBERS key
List all members of a Set.

.TP
.B ZADD key member score
Add or update a member with its numeric score in a Sorted Set.

.TP
.B ZREM key member [member ...]
Remove one or more members from a Sorted Set.

.TP
.B ZRANGE key start stop
Return members and scores within the specified range (by index, ascending by score).

.TP
.B ZSCORE key member
Return the score of a specific member in a Sorted Set.

.TP
.B BEGIN
Start a transaction. All changes are buffered until COMMIT.

.TP
.B COMMIT
Commit the current transaction to the database.

.TP
.B ROLLBACK
Abort all pending changes in the current transaction.

.TP
.B IMPORTJSON <string>
Import JSON data into the database.

.TP
.B EXPORTJSON
Export current state to
.I data.json
in the working directory.

.TP
.B SERVE [port]
Start ZiggyDB as a TCP server (default port 8080).

.TP
.B EXIT
Quit the shell.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.ziggydb/
Default directory for log and data files.

.TP
.I data.json
JSON output generated by EXPORTJSON.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ZIGGYDB_WAL
Overrides the WAL log file path.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ ziggydb
ziggy> SET name "Deondre"
OK
ziggy> SET counter 42 EXP 60 TYPE INT
OK
ziggy> LPUSH colors red green blue
(3) pushed
ziggy> LRANGE colors 0 2
1) blue
2) green
3) red
ziggy> SADD languages zig rust c
3 member(s) added
ziggy> SMEMBERS languages
1) c
2) rust
3) zig
ziggy> ZADD scores alice 90.5
Added alice (score 90.50)
ziggy> ZADD scores bob 82
Added bob (score 82.00)
ziggy> ZRANGE scores 0 10
1) bob 82.00
2) alice 90.50
ziggy> ZSCORE scores alice
90.50
ziggy> EXPORTJSON
ziggy> EXIT
$ cat data.json
{
  "map": { "name": { "value": "Deondre", "expiry_unix_s": null } },
  "lists": { "colors": ["blue", "green", "red"] },
  "sets": { "languages": ["c", "rust", "zig"] },
  "zsets": { "scores": {"bob":82.0,"alice":90.5} }
}
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Deondre English.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Submit issues at:
.UR https://github.com/deondreenglish/ziggydb
.UE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zig (1),
.BR json (5)